.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Vincent Bernat <bernat@luffy.cx>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: August 9 2008 $
.Dt UDPPROXY 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm udpproxy
.Nd UDP proxy using Netfilter netlink-queue
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl d
.Op Fl q Ar queue number
.Op Fl e Ar remote command
.Op Fl u Ar uid
.Op Fl g Ar gid
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a daemon intercepting UDP packets with the help of
.Em Netfilter
netlink-queue support. Packets are then sent to another process to be
processed. This process can be a local process or a remote process via
.Xr ssh 1 .
.Pp
.Nm
needs to receive packets from Netfilter using
.Em NFQUEUE
target. You need to setup a rule like this:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
iptables -A OUTPUT -p udp --dport 161 \\
       --destination 172.16.100.0/23 -j NFQUEUE --queue-num 10
.Ed
.Pp
All packets matching the rule will be sent to
.Nm
that will send them to the remote process that will act as a proxy.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d
Enable debug.
If this option is specified,
.Nm
will output debug messages to
.Em stderr .
.It Fl q Ar queue number
Specify the queue number to listen to. In the example above, this is
10. Without this option,
.Nm
will act as the remote proxy and will wait for packets to be sent on
its standard input.
.It Fl e Ar remote command
Specify how to invoke the remote process. If this option is not
specified,
.Nm
will invoke itself. You can use
.Xr ssh 1 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
udpproxy -e "ssh remotehost udpproxy"
.Ed
.It Fl u Ar uid
Invoke the remote process as the given UID. 
.Nm
needs root
privileges to receives packets from
.Em Netfilter
and to send back packets when receiving answers. The remote
.Nm
does not need any privilege.
.It Fl g Ar gid
Invoke the remote process as the given GID.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ssh 1
.Sh AUTHOR
.An -nosplit
The
.Nm
program was written by
.An Vincent Bernat Aq bernat@luffy.cx .
